# 262. Introduce linter and run linter in the pre-commit Hook

- syntax check using ESLint: npm i -D eslint eslint-plugin-import eslint-config-airbnb-base
- -D = development dependency
- eslint-config-airbnb-base = set of rules (<https://github.com/airbnb/javascript>)
- package.json: "scripts": "lint": "eslint src/**"
- run the lint script: npm run lint
- ESLint couldn't find a configuration file. To set up a configuration file for this project, please run: npm init @eslint/config

- If you need you could install any NPM package globally using -g flag: for example, npm install -g eslint

- configuration setting questions:  
  ✔ How would you like to use ESLint? · problems  
  ✔ What type of modules does your project use? · commonjs  
  ✔ Which framework does your project use? · none  
  ✔ Does your project use TypeScript? · No / Yes  
  ✔ Where does your code run? · browser  
  ✔ What format do you want your config file to be in? · JavaScript
- .eslintrc.js: replace "extends": "eslint:recommended", with "extends: "airbnb-base",
- npm run lint:
- add the lint step in the pre-commit Hook:  
  package.json:  
    "husky": {
    "hooks": {
      "pre-commit": "npm run lint && npm test"
- It is possible to configure VS Code to highlight all syntax errors in the files and try to auto fix them on save
- we fix the errors manually
- check with npm run lint
- automatic fixing of errors:  
  "scripts": {  
    "test": "jest",  
    "lint": "eslint src/**",  
    "lint-fix": "eslint src/** --fix"
- npm run lint-fix
- sum.js: add "console.log(sum)
- with warnings, you are able to commit the changes
- problem: Now before each commit linter verifies all files in the src folder and Jest runs all tests even if there are no changes in the JavaScript files at all!
- solution: It is possible to lint and test ONLY staged and related to them files: selective syntax verification and test execution only of the files related to commit, only to staged files
- additional package lint-staged  
